# QuantumSimulator

This package is a general-purpose, high-level quantum circuit simulator. It combines both an exact state vector approach and a matrix product state (MPS)-based approach. The MPS functionalities are built on top of the existing Julia package ITensors. The user can construct any quantum circuit consisting of the usual quantum gates, with the possibility to define custom gates acting on up to eight qubits. By adjusting the maximum bond dimension if MPS are chosen as a backend, the user can place an upper bound on the possible entanglement in the quantum circuit and study different quantum algorithms as a function of the size of the Hilbert space thereby made available to them. It has been shown that this approach is analogous to running quantum circuits on NISQ quantum computing devices; thus MPS-based quantum computation gives a means to analyse to computational power of currently available quantum computers.

# Overview 

The main building blocks of the QuantumSimulator are contained in the file QSim.jl. Each quantum circuit is initiliased as a struct, which keeps track of the ciruit's attributes. The file Hilbert_Space.jl contains predefined operators for a (multi-) qubit system (required by ITensors). Different measurement functions are contained in the measurement.jl file. In particular, one may perform either an "end-of-circuit" measurement with large statistics (many samples of the quantum state are evaluated), or a single "mid-circuit" measurement, leading to a subsequent collapse of the wave function. 
All the quantum gates are contained in the directory functions. Each gate function is named intuitively after the gate it is modeling, and acts on a quantum circuit object by updating its state vector. It is automatically recognised whether the state vector is a "true" vector or an MPS; therefore all MPS-based quantum circuits can be written with the exact same high-level commands as the exact quantum circuits. In addition, each quantum circuit object holds information about which gates have already been applied to it. The draw() function is able to read out this information and print it on the terminal, such that the user can easily verify if the a quantum circuit under construction is implemented correctly. In order to get started with using the package, we recommend to have a look at the scripts in the Example_scripts directory. They contain various basic quantum circuits with a many explanations, allowing the user to quickly learn how to use the main functions of this package.

# Disclaimer

This Julia package is still under development as a part of the author's doctoral research in the groups for "Correlated Quantum Materials" and "Quantum Transport" at Aalto University in Espoo, Finland. If you discover any bugs while using it, or have suggestions for features which should be implemented but aren't, please contact me at marcel.niedermeier[at]aalto.fi. I would be very glad for any feedback!
